# Submission Review Process
Once the provider has made their submission, the RABET-V Verification Authority must review the submitted information and determine which RABET-V activities are necessary.

## Inputs

* Provider's submission package

## Outputs

* A decision about which RABET-V activities are necessary to perform based on the submission type and change list
* Test Plan for Product Verification activity (if no other activities are necessary)

## Workflow

### 1. Review package for completion. 
Initial Submissions have more required items that Revision Submissions. See [Provider Submission](Provider_Submission.md) for submission requirements. 

For initial submissions, all activities are required in order to generate a set of Testing Rules. Therefore, the following steps in this workflow are not required and can be skipped. 


### 2. Validate change list

Product revisions must come with a product change list.

Change list verification is a key component of the Submission Review process. If the Process Review found that the change list generated by the provider is reliable, the this validation can be skipped or streamlined. Otherwise, the change list but be validated by manual or automated means. 

### 3. Determine if Process Assessment activity needs to be performed

The Process Assessment is required when one of the following conditions is true:
* The submission is an Initial Submission
* The provider has requested a new Process Assessment in order to generate a new set of Testing Rules and/or update Software Development Maturity (SDM) scores
* It has been more than 18 months since the last Process Assessment was performed.
* Artifacts provided by provider indicate a significant process change has occurred with provider.  

### 4. Determine if Architecture Review activity needs to be performed

The Architecture Review is required when one of the following conditions is true:
* The submission is an Initial Submission
* The provider has requested a new Architecture Review in order to generate a new set of Testing Rules and/or update Security Services Architectural Maturity (SSAM) scores.
* The change list indicates the addition, removal, or modification of architectural components since the last Architecture Review.


### 5. Determine if Security Claims Validation activity needs to be performed

The Security Claims Validation activity is required when one of the following conditions is true:
* The submission is an Initial Submission
* The provider has requested a new Security Claims Validation in order to generate a new set of Testing Rules and/or update Security Services Capability Maturity (SSCM) scores.
* The change list indicates that a 1st degree architectural component has been modified.
* The change list indicates that prior Security Claims Validation findings need to be reviewed.  


### 6. Generate Test Plan for Product Verification activity

If the Process Assessment, Architecture Review, and Security Claims validation activities are not necessary, the next activity is the Product Verification Activity. The Test Plan for the Product Verification activity is generated from the Testing Rules for the product. Consult the Testing Rules with the current change list and generate a Test Plan. 




