# User Session Management Requirements

[Seems OK, we can adopt most of these as-is, with maybe added scopes]

## Maturity Level 1 
- Lock Workstation Sessions After Inactivity - Automatically lock workstation sessions after a standard period of inactivity.
>This is a basic security control that should be used universally. Employees should also be trained to lock their computers whenever they leave their devices.

Scope: Endpoints configured by provider.

>Reference: CIS Security Best Practices for Non-Voting Election Technology 5.1.11
- Set the Cookie Expiration Time - The session cookie should have a reasonable expiration time. Non-expiring session cookies should only be allowed for applications with no sensitive information, such as one providing basic public information that is customized for a user.
>
Scope: Web applications

>Reference: CIS Security Best Practices for Non-Voting Election Technology A1.5.2
- Place a Logout Button on Every Page - The logout button or logout link should be easily accessible to the user on every page after they have authenticated.
>

>Reference: CIS Security Best Practices for Non-Voting Election Technology A1.5.3
- Use Secure Cookie Attributes (i.e. HttpOnly and Secure Flags) - The session cookie should be set with both the HttpOnly and Secure flags. This ensures that the session ID will not be accessible to client-side scripts and it will only be transmitted over HTTPS.
>

Scope: Web applications

>Reference: CIS Security Best Practices for Non-Voting Election Technology A1.5.4
- Ensure That Session Identifiers Are Sufficiently Random - Session tokens must be generated by secure random functions and must be at least 128 bits or provide 64 bits of entropy.
>

>Reference: CIS Security Best Practices for Non-Voting Election Technology A1.5.5
- Invalidate the Session after Logout - When the user logs out of the application, the session and corresponding data on the server must be destroyed. This ensures that the session cannot be accidentally revived.
>

[Seems overbroad]

>Reference: CIS Security Best Practices for Non-Voting Election Technology A1.5.6
- Implement an Idle Session Timeout - When a user is not active, the application should automatically log the user out. Be aware that Ajax applications may make recurring calls to the application, effectively resetting the timeout counter automatically.
>

>Reference: CIS Security Best Practices for Non-Voting Election Technology A1.5.9

## Maturity Level 2 
- Regenerate Session Tokens - Session tokens should be regenerated when the user authenticates to the application and when the user privilege level changes. Additionally, should the encryption status change, the session token should always be regenerated.
>

>Reference: CIS Security Best Practices for Non-Voting Election Technology A1.5.10
- Implement an Absolute Session Timeout - Users should be logged out after an extensive amount of time (e.g., 4-8 hours) has passed since they logged in, regardless of activity. This helps mitigate the risk of an attacker using a hijacked session.
>

>Reference: CIS Security Best Practices for Non-Voting Election Technology A1.5.8

## Maturity Level 3
- Destroy Sessions at Any Sign of Tampering - Unless the application requires multiple simultaneous sessions for a single user, implement features to detect session cloning attempts. Should any sign of session cloning be detected, the session should be destroyed, forcing the real user to reauthenticate.
>

>Reference: CIS Security Best Practices for Non-Voting Election Technology A1.5.7
